[DOC] Added Joins (#4122)
pachyderm/pachyderm: doc/concepts/pipeline-concepts/pipeline/join.md

# Join

A join is a special type of pipeline input that enables you to combine files that reside in separate Pachyderm repositories and match a particular naming pattern. The join operator must be used in combination with a glob pattern that reflects a specific naming convention.

> By analogy, a Pachyderm join is similar to a database equi-join (aka: inner left join) operation, but it's matching on file paths only, not the contents of the files.

Reviewer: it's just an inner join

# Join

A join is a special type of pipeline input that enables you
to combine files that reside in separate Pachyderm repositories
and match a particular naming pattern. The join operator must
be used in combination with a glob pattern that reflects a
specific naming convention.

A Pachyderm join is similar to a database equi-join operation that
combines columns from one or more tables into its own dataset
if the column names match.

Similarly, joins help you consolidate results with matching names from
multiple repositories in a single dataset. For example, you collect
data from multiple sources and need to consolidate the results
that match a specific parameter. These results can be readings
from a sensor, a geographical location, or something similar.

When you configure a join input, you must specify a glob pattern

> that defines a capture group. A capture group is the group of

Reviewer 2: Also, capture groups isn't something we invented -- pretty sure its a standard unix globbing definition, although certainly a bit archaic. We should look up how they're defined elswhere.

> files selected for further processing. In the glob parameter,

Reviewer 2: > In the glob parameter,
a capturing glob must be enclosed in parenthesis. For example,
if you have a file named `test`, you could configure the
following globs for it:

In the glob parameter, a capture group is specified by parentheses. Capture groups are numbered from left to right and can also be nested within each other. You can read more about capture group conventions here (LINK TO UNIX DOCS). Below are a few examples using a file path: `dir123/file456.txt`

`dir123/file(456).txt`  --> capture group 1 = `456`
`(dir123)/file(456).txt`  --> capture group 1 = `123`. capture group 2 = `456`. 
`dir123/file(4(5)6).txt`  --> capture group 1 = `456`. capture group 2 = `5`. 

--- 
started writing this out and realized that this actually needs to get reorganized a bit. I'm happy to take a rewrite pass on it, but I'll get to it tomorrow. Submitting this for now just to not lose track

or *inner join* operation, but it matches on file paths
only, not the contents of the files.

Unlike the [cross input](cross-input.md), which creates datums from every
combination of files in each input repository, joins only create datums
where there is a *match*. You can use joins to combine data from different
Pachyderm repositories and ensure that only specific files from each repo
are processed together.

When you configure a join input, you must specify a glob pattern that
includes a capture group. The capture group defines the specific string in
the file path that is used to match files in the other joined repos.
Capture groups work analagously to the [regex capture group](https://www.regular-expressions.info/refcapture.html).
You define the capture group inside parenthesis. Capture groups are numbered
from left to right and can also be nested within each other. Numbering for
nested capture groups is based on their opening parenthesis.

Below you can find a few examples of applying a glob pattern with a capture
group to a file path. For example, if you have the following file path:

```bash
/foo/bar-123/ABC.txt
```

> The following regular expressions, create the following capture groups:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following glob patterns if used in a join input, would create the following capture groups:
```

Author: adddress

| Regular expression  | Capture groups           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------ |
| `/(*)`              | `foo`                    |
| `/*/bar-(*)`        | `123`                    |
| `/(*)/*/(??)*.txt`  | Capture group 1: `foo`, capture group 2: `AB`. |
| `/*/(bar-(123))/*`  | Capture group 1: `bar-123`, capture group 2: `123`. |

Also, joins require you to specify a [replacement group](https://www.regular-expressions.info/replacebackref.html)

> in the  a `join_on`` parameter to define which capture groups you want to try

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the  a `join_on` parameter to define which capture groups you want to try
```

Author: addressed
